um
thanks everybody who went to the party
last night was it fun
okay good
so it's day three um and day three
we do have some great cos and cros and
others but um it's traditionally been
money day we have like hundreds of brain
dates with vcs and so much has changed
that i wanted to invite someone that has
truly seen it all to help us learn about
it it helps to be so old help seen it
all but but really seen it all with with
alienly and um
for a little bit of context the world's
changed so much right in the last just
actually today we're gonna talk about it
um but um when i started investing in
2013 i i think eileen reached out to me
to meet i knew nothing i didn't know
what like an emerging fund was what was
going on and we met and
uh aileen was truly a pioneer cowboy
ventures now there's hundreds of seed
funds right this is 500 600 shy golden
but
probably you homebrew a few others were
like the first group that create created
a real seed fund right in 2012 or
something like that
yeah so we started in 2012 i will give
credit to first round josh kaufman and
those folks yeah steve anderson at
baseline harrison metal michael dearing
chris sacco was angel investing like i
was at kleiner because i started at
kleiner at the end of 99. and the seed
thing was happening in like the mid
2000s like 0.50 that's when we really
should have started by the way
and angel investors were getting in at
three pre for pre and they were all
co-investing and then as a series a
investor i was kind of running around i
was already friends with a lot of those
folks and i was just constantly trying
to figure out what they were investing
in so i could get a chance to look at it
for the a
um and uh and i mean i at kleiner i
never really knew any of what we call
lps which are the investors in our funds
we never had an lp meeting in the 12
years that i was there so it was
actually those guys who i called and
said hey i'm thinking about starting a
seed fund
what do you think is it too crowded
isn't that funny yeah
the answer probably was yes they were
like no it's not like the fact that
you've been an a investor is really
different there's also you're a woman
there's no women's that would be
different
uh come join us and they introduced me
to my first lps oh that's good yeah yeah
so real so we'll talk through what's
changed and what's changing a pioneer
there a pioneer in
in sort of institutionalizing
that um and then we will we'll dig into
the market and then a pioneer really
helping all of us think about how the
markets will change and we're coming up
on the 10th anniversary we're just
talking about backstage of of aliens
unicorn post on techcrunch a lot of you
probably never read it but when i read
it there's a couple things where my jaw
dropped and it was the first time we'd
really seen data around startups and
what it takes to get to a billion and
how many were solo founders and and that
how many what age there were in all the
pieces and there were two of them that
were sort of canonical so that inspired
us um and then i'll tell just a quick
story that i do want to dig in and then
when i started investing for real
um
it was great that we'd met and it was
friggin crazy in 2013 i felt like i
wrote this
and i got a little trouble i said i felt
like it's men
i felt like i had walked back in time i
couldn't believe it i mean 2013 not
everything's changed but it is a long
time ago right literally working on sand
hill with the like the
you know the uh whatever the beige
colored furniture and just room full of
not just dudes but like
this the whole
patronizing view of venture capital i
felt like i was literally on on mad men
right and yeah a lot of when you walked
into vc offices there's an extremely
attractive receptionist
yeah and then a bunch of guys in offices
and
it it really did it was like mad men
yeah different clothes so just
thank just the whole when you even
before all raise and i don't spend all
their time it's just such an inspiration
to me to see a change agent and i i just
felt so inspired by it because i
couldn't believe it and i had this one
moment and then i'll stop with and i
just not only was it all dudes but i
went to this one pitch it must have been
early 14
and it wasn't just the partners in the
association for some reason there were
like venture partners venture friends
venture buddies it was like 28 dudes and
the air conditioned broke
and there's this poor woman co pitching
and i don't know why she was
uncomfortable she might have been
comfortable because it was 98 degrees
she might have been comfortable because
pitching is hard but watching this her
stand in front of this room with air
with 20 and i'm like this is just the
worst industry this is just
terrible i would like to give you a
giant shout out because the saster
community and like you demonstrate like
we know
that to make the change the ceo has to
be committed and the leader has to be
committed and i just feel like the
commitment you've made at saster
to make sure that every panel every
stage the mix of the audience is like is
diverse and you do a huge i would like
to give you that like
really
it's
um like you were one of the first big
communities to be like no mantles we're
just we're never gonna have a mantle i
mean i i don't
it's kind of crazy that not everyone is
like that still but you really were the
first i mean i want to talk about the
industry but i'll you know it's if you
want my learning for what it's worth is
we did the 2015 annual and it's like a
startup so i decided we wanted to do one
i had 30 days to get a thousand people
so what do you do you you call your
friends not my right not really my
friends aaron levy will you please come
right a few other folks and then um and
then i'm like slack seems hot stuart
butterfield where you come and i turn
around and i'm like oh my god it's all
dudes mm-hmm i mean it's the terrible
thing with that that happens with
startups right it's it's not always
intentional and all of a sudden after
that first year i'm like okay
we have to be if we're gonna do nothing
else we got to set this as a goal we
have to have at least 50 women right and
um but even i it's terrible to to to
to
realize they should have i should have
been aware of it in 60 seconds but i
wasn't with what i'm just oh my god how
do i get people to come like i don't i
got it i gotta i gotta get a party
together right
but it's the same problem with founders
it's it gets to be too late right if
everyone's like you
um there's a moment where it's too late
so you know we never feel like it's
never it's never too late it's never too
it isn't this is an example um
there's a ton of vcs speaking um this
will be one of the best sessions but
we've got benchmark lightspeed andreeson
after this the state of the cloud with
bessemer uh that we know well we've done
that like five years here it's going to
be pretty cool with a lot of data so
come to all of these but anyhow i wanted
to just briefly talk about this slide um
which is figma i know we can't quite see
it but we had a lot of we have a lot of
content in here about how the markets
are down and the markets are challenging
um i think it's really cool how they
arranged the announcement yeah to make
sure that it happened during the
disaster did everybody see this this
morning well done okay
did anybody um raise the price of a
discussion you're having with the vc
here today as a result
anyone up
anyone feel more confident
a little bit 100x is back baby yeah
so
so i know we're processing it but
there's been a lot of um negativity in
venture the last couple months right
does this is how does it change what you
think well i wouldn't say negativity but
obviously like prices i mean obviously
the public market is the tail that it
wags the private market dog right and so
and it's not it's interest rates right
and also like the pandemic like you know
we pumped a lot of money into the
economy during the pandemic we bought a
lot of software during the pandemic you
saw things like zoom go crazy and then
everyone's like oh i'm just like zoom i
also should be able to grow at that rate
and trade at that multiple right and
that's just that was like a false
assumption i think and i think
it's kind of crazy now looking back at
it that we didn't think oh this is a
pandemic bubble in some ways but clearly
there was just a lot of stuff that is
not going to be like it was a year and a
half ago um and so yeah i mean
i think every venture investor if you
like raise your hand if you're a founder
or if you're a ceo okay um raise your
hand if you have a board
okay so we're going to dish a little bit
on like what's going on behind the
smiles at your board meeting
um because a lot of people are sitting
on super overvalued investments
and depending on what price they paid
and what's in their portfolio they are
super stressed out right now
because they don't see a path for their
portfolio companies or a chunk of their
portfolio companies to grow into the
last round valuation
um and so i think that is and they're
probably pretending that everything's
fine yeah so when they see you they like
high-five you and like what's up man and
like but inside they're like super
stressed out and they're not sleeping
now when now but but of course vcs have
multiple bets found you know this is the
classic dichotomy i only get one bet and
these my vcs and jackson hole or
wherever they're where in europe they
get to make 20 or 30 bets why why are
they stressed if because they've got a
figm in their portfolio why are they
stressed i mean figma is a
well we were talking about this earlier
right like i mean it is
the um
[Music]
it is the thing that you want as a
venture investor right it's the one
thing that's going to drive your entire
portfolio and i think there are a lot of
really interesting
lessons about that story right one is
like for the first four years of figma
maybe the first five people really
laughed at it and looked at the venture
investors and this company that had not
shipped a product for two years and then
they shipped a product and no one was
really using it and people said it
sucked and then they basically like
shipped another release and everyone
said it sucked and laughed at the
venture investors and the people working
there being like they're chasing
a windmill this is never going to turn
into anything yeah um and so even though
when you look back at it i think it's
probably like a eight
year old company 10 year old company so
getting to 20 billion dollars in that
period of time seems pretty fast but the
first four or five years was pretty slow
um and like that gives hopefully like if
you are working hard at something that
you have a big vision for and it's not
all going your way you should know that
not all 20 billion dollar exits are up
until the right the entire time yeah i
think figma i knew less about figma than
than maybe i should have i but i was
looking it up this morning i think it
was 2012 to 2016 until a full ga yeah
right okay so it's a 10 year old company
and then 2016 to 2022 they went to 20
billion
yeah so that and we were talking about
notion notion was here this year it was
here yesterday i think they were five or
six years until they had any real
revenue notion and now addition
dominates right and um no i think that
is just obviously that's
something we'll talk about which is plg
yeah right and like depends on who your
customers and how your product gets
adopted um if you don't if you can have
self-serve and you don't have to spend
any money on aes or customer acquisition
then you can spend a lot of time
building the product and then it'll fly
off the shelves
if you have a product that has to be
sold it's a lot harder to wait for four
years yep so let's just but this the the
figma thing we didn't talk about before
but it's so interesting when as
a seed investor yourself
when is
when's a startup and at it too long when
do you like you'll meet with the founder
and they'll go out here i've been doing
this for five years i'm finally at a
million in revenue yeah when do you lean
in and when when are you like well it's
just
it's a sign that like you're never
really gonna get there how do when do
you decide what's like the oldest
startup you invested in do you know oh
my gosh i think have you done one that
took five or six years to get a seed
check
no no
no
i would say at cowboy
our um our specialty is probably more
pre-product risk
so most of the time like more than
probably 60 of the investments we've
made in the past 10 years are founders
who need money to build the product
okay you didn't have any that took four
years then no like you know like they
they're like we have this idea we've
built wireframes we've done some landing
page testing we've done 20 customer
interviews and customer discovery but we
don't we come from humble means i don't
have a giant bank account i need the
money to hire the engineers and build
the product yes and uh and so the risk
that we take is often like you know are
they going to be able to build something
like they say they are and is there
going to be there there when we actually
ship it got it no i don't know what
about you have you do you have anything
in four or five years
um
no but
maybe it you know sometimes you don't
you don't know the history of the
company for example like you know so on
paper my best investments talk to us
were talking about last year and i
thought
it's interesting the history when you
look at the the history that i was aware
of when i met thiago in 2014 was it took
them a year to go from like zero to two
and then another year to go from two to
fifteen okay that was what i knew when
he came to sas to europe in paris he's
like you didn't know i babysat for two
years before that i had no i was a first
time founder from lisbon with nothing
and i literally i came by myself and
back and forth and i so sometimes
there's a pre-history yeah and maybe as
founders it's good to market yourself
properly with your p you know or i had
an agency like mailchimp from yeah
sometimes there is that or we were
working on it yeah and sometimes you can
kind of pick your day one sometimes
can't you yeah i totally like them if
you look at figma today it looks like
they started in 2014. yeah and some will
even say 20 yeah 2014 2016 they'll do
they'll do so yeah um so i want to go on
to the next point but to wrap this up is
this i know we're processed in real time
do you think this will create more
optimism especially in growth and later
stage doesn't it almost have to create a
little bit more optimism like i think
look i think it's yes
uh
this is what we all aspire to right a
lot of founders and investors aspire to
this and um you just gotta look you
gotta pick an industry that ideally has
a non-cloud native incumbent
that is worth a ton of money right like
they hadn't he had an incumbent that had
a hundred billion dollar market cap that
has what 40 ebitda it's like an
incredibly profitable incredible
segment to be in and they're not a cloud
native company right they've tried
really hard to get to cloud but they
have this massive open flank of a
competitor that's cloud native
um that is beloved um so if you can pick
i mean there's tons i mean that's
another thing we do all the time at
cowboys we analyze like what categories
have really old slow-moving incumbents
where people don't really like the
product that's a great place to build
new software it is yeah um
interesting so but do you
do you think that this will lead to a
few percentage points more optimism or
you you don't think so no because we
still look at snowflake and datadog and
all the companies we talk about right
like
best in class companies now that have a
clear path to profitability they have
really good margins they're trading at
15 times revenues if they're lucky if
they're lucky
the page duties and boxes are three
exactly and so i mean that is the
the
bizarre on
like unfortunate reality for some
this year is
last year people were able to raise 100
times revenues right this year best in
class some sas companies with great
margins and great acvs and great
ndr are trading at 10 times revenue so
the old adage of get like you know build
your product with your seed get to a one
to two million dollars in revenue and
then raise your a
if you can do that last year you would
have raised at
60 80 pre you would have raised a 20
million dollar series a and b 100 post
right but a hundred posts at a one
million dollars revenue would make you
like your evaluation 100 times revenue
that's just not going to happen
um unless you have a ridiculous story to
tell
maybe you were like vp of engineering at
stripe
like you know those people will still
probably raise at high valuations but
for us regular people i think
what series as are going to be back to 8
to 12 million dollars
and series a valuations will be back to
20 to
35 40 pre
yeah um and b's will be back to
100 free instead of four or 500 free
let's
let's unpack that just a little bit
sorry for for c no no no it's it's great
insights for seed if you had to distill
it all
all the market changes
how much lower do you think a typical
good seed deal is today versus six to
nine months ago today we're still
adjusting
right like i right now we're seeing a
lot of
um seed extensions
uh we're seeing a lot of seed founders
who are sending us decks that have a six
million dollar seed raise in them
and
i'll email the founder and be like hey
this looks really interesting are you
still thinking about a seed a six
million dollar seed and they'll be like
oh no sorry that's a mistake we're
raising three
um so we're still adjusting uh and i
think that that's going to be the rest
of this year
got it
are you seeing the same thing
i don't know i i i think let's spend
some time going through the stack of
letters for the round yeah i i think
you're right i think the other point you
made in some notes to me was
the weird effects of overhangs the weird
effects of not of founder-led funds
founders that have 100 200 million of
their own money to deploy and
the confidence of a lot of folks in the
next figma being
relatively valuable i mean i wish i had
the data from this yc class i'm sure
it's down yeah but i bet it's pretty
good i bet the valuation i bet there are
plenty of people that were thrilled to
write 20 million
um post safes in very risky early stages
and have no qualms right no problems at
all i do think some of that speaks to um
like what we called like we derided them
as tourist vcs um and that's not very
respectful so i won't use that term but
um i think there are a lot of people who
have not seen cycles before in the
industry right now there's a lot of like
basically as these funds got bigger they
had more fee income and so they could
feed more mouths and they would hire
younger people and say you have a
checkbook like you don't have a big
checkbook like i have like you know the
part the general partners could write
20 50 100 150 million dollar checks the
younger people are given checkbooks to
write a two million dollar check a four
million object that way if they don't
work out and you let them go you're not
actually losing that much money
um and it's kind of like training wheels
for the next generation investors and so
a lot of those folks have not seen
cycles they only understand the world
we've lived in for the past three to
five years and so for them going from a
seed that was at 50 post to a seed
that's at 25 post is like cool it's like
a bargain
um but they don't realize that things
are still going down
um and so i think we're still in this
adjustment period yeah
i think we're i think we were talking
about i think most founders are through
this if and again being funded at all is
a luxury and a privilege in many ways
folks there's many bootstrap folks here
yeah we get to millions without it i
think we're
founders were slow to adjust to the
change they were they were they've been
slow and i think they're they're just
and i think the biggest risk and
is the next round
right what if the next round went from
because last year in 2021 everyone
assumed the next round was coming it's
not just that it was at 5x in 12 months
or 100 x it's that it seems so de-risked
didn't it it seemed everything seemed
de-risked out of the system didn't it
yeah yeah we were joking this morning so
i had i'm all raised this is non-profit
that i work with and i i'm this cohort
with other investors and i was telling
that i was coming here and i was saying
how like i feel like in the last
downturn in the recession in 08 we
talked about how flat is the new up and
i was like is flat the new up and we
were like no any money is the new up
um next rounds are going to be hard yeah
and i think
some people are not going to be able to
raise them
and and how do you
how do you what's your just general
advice for
and i think you put some notes about
talking to your investors talking about
how do you find that out as a founder
how do you know in today's world you're
fundable how can you how can you just
because we just want to know the answer
yeah where do i sit in september 2022 or
whatever people watch i mean that kind
of speaks also like i i've always been a
big fan of an engaged
board yeah and in the past five years
we've gone through this cycle where it's
like you don't need a board or just like
get easy money or like and vcs have been
um chasing all of you
and it's been super competitive like
it's been a founder like power
founder-dominated market so a lot of
investors have gotten scared to have
real talk with founders because they're
afraid the founder's not going to like
it and then the founder is going to
should talk them behind their back
and then be like oh yeah you don't want
jason or eileen on your cap table they
were total pain in my ass
um and so then founders got really like
used to just oh sorry funders got really
used to just blowing smoke at founders
because that's what founders wanted to
hear like not the hard stuff not the
stuff that we need to work on or you
have a blind spot or where you're like
you're deluding yourself or and also a
lot of the you know less experienced
investors they don't they have they
haven't been through this before so
if you have a board if you don't have a
board i would get a board
if you do have a board and people are
not giving you the straight talk ask
them for it
and tell them that you want it
and if they don't know it like they may
have colleagues who've lived through um
again also i think independent board
members and outside board members are
totally underutilized by boards like get
someone if go to market is your big risk
get a great person who's got go to
market experience on your board
who's lived through cycles and
understands how budgets tighten how
sales cycles slow
how cash like gets you know pushed out
and like how you do collections all the
ticky tacky stuff that you gotta like
live through the hard way um i think
that's the way you get
because you have to come up with your
battle plan yeah and just i know this
almost sounds like a base like a silly
question i've asked years ago but today
how if people aren't having board
meetings or investor means how often
should they have them
um oh yeah actually you made some good
comments about how you're seeing a lot
of sloppy board behavior recently right
i just i'll give you one company
investment it's doing well yeah um it
has like a really fancy venture fund in
it but the partner lives at the beach
now it has another really good fun but
it's it's run by a ceo um
the last board meeting was four months
ago the next one hasn't been scheduled
they don't care i mean they've done well
one's running a unicorn and one is a
very successful vc who probably did too
many investments yeah right and so
nothing's being scheduled
it's um well the other thing to add to
this dynamic is that
[Music]
investors lps inventor funds have
basically put on the breaks
and so any fund that is trying to raise
right now is having a pretty hard time
for the most part
and they're not going to tell you
they're having a hard time raising money
or that they're going through a grilling
fundraise and but that does play into
their dynamic of how they communicate
with you because they need you the
founder to be a reference for them
um and so like we have one portfolio
company where like we're off plan and it
doesn't feel like the founders the
velocity of shipping is not at the place
where it should be and i'm not on the
board i'm an observer and someone else
is on the board and i called the board
member and i was like hey what's your
feeling about how this like what kind of
coaching are you giving the the team
about how things are going it feels like
things are off and we are not doing the
things we should be doing and he was
like i gotta be honest i'm raising a
fund right now and i cannot afford to
have a bad reference from these people
so i'm not telling them anything
hmm that is not the job of the board
member like that made me really pissed
off
i had not
thought through
that vc's own investors their lps
would be a cause of this overly
saccharine approach to founders right
there is a it's so like when we started
it when i was a founder i felt that vcs
are the most patronizing people i ever
met they would condescend to me
young jason no matter how old i was
young jason this is how you do it like
just you know the the the jacket
preparing for months for the board
meetings and now everyone smiles i miss
the quarter great
great bob keep going we actually had no
sales last month okay keep at it keep at
it kiddo and like
i i'm trying to figure out what the hell
is going on i get more as time goes on i
get more direct i get more empathetic
but actually like i don't have time to
do hey kiddo i'm like look guys you're
up like like
just change right um but
i thought it was more rep just general
reputation but maybe it's maybe they're
worried that their own investors will
call i think and not get all the check
boxes and they'll and they'll go with
you know cowboy instead of somebody else
right i think it's yes both yeah and
it's not to get too nice maybe we're
back in a world
it seemed like this went away where
actually vcs are competing with each
other again for lp money right is it
does that exist today or is that is that
is that from the old days yeah i mean i
think it's not um
but yeah the lps
the investment the lps aren't going to
go too much in the lp side but it's
really interesting because
let's say if you had a hundred dollars
and you're an lp right you're gonna say
like i'm gonna take 10 of it and put in
real estate 15 of it and put in debt
like you want to have a diversified
portfolio right and i'm going to take
20 of it and put it in private equity
and venture capital maybe 10 in venture
capital and 10 private equity i'm going
to have like let's say 40 in stock right
and you always want to have this balance
of your holdings well stock let's say if
you had 48 of your stock of of your 100
in stock and the market has contracted
so now your 40 is worth 20
in stock and so it throws off your whole
portfolio and so your venture allocation
which was already potentially overvalued
because you were sitting on these really
expensive private unicorns and all these
um like undistributed public stocks um
it now looks like a bigger chunk of your
portfolio than it used to so it means
you don't want to like you don't want to
overspend your budget you said you only
wanted to have 20 in venture but now as
a percentage of your portfolio it's like
30 of your portfolio yeah so they're
they're having to kind of like restrict
themselves in the first place
so it's just a really funky
domino effect i think that's the thing
for founders don't need to know
everything we don't yeah yeah it's worth
knowing two things most almost all vcs
have their own vcs called lp's yes they
have their own vcs they have to report
to and it's actually worse because vcs
vc clps only view you as a number they
only i remember the first lp meeting i
had it was like jpmorgan chase or
something we went into this meeting and
he just flipped to the last page of a 90
page back and just looked at the numbers
didn't he's you know he walked in he
says are you guys eye to ear healthcare
yeah totally we're
basically not good enough we're looking
for top decile you guys will he just
ended the meeting i mean basically all
of us are basically like stocks in their
money stocks weird stocks really weird
stocks
and so i guess you it's worth knowing
they have their own investors and it's
worth knowing
you don't need to figure it at all
because there's a lot of investors but
there are stressors and the stressors
will vary some are more stressed some
are less stressed but there's stress in
the system beyond valuations that didn't
exist a year ago like the stress right
um
yeah and uh yeah
and the other one that i wonder not to
go off on a channel but you know do you
you have so much better data at least
historically but do you know what the
average
top-tier university endowment adventure
did last year the ir last year was
incredible 90
yeah so i actually think it's not just
the denominator numerator i actually
think lp's got believe they were they
were as brilliant as the vcs believe
they were i think lps thought this
everyone thought this world would would
last didn't they for longer no i don't
know i don't know if you bought it we
wish we hoped it would hoped it would
that's different i mean everyone mean if
you look at like you're gonna do the
best cloud talk right you're gonna look
at like
where are we and
it seems like in all likelihood the
multiples of last year were just an
outlier okay and so then why'd they do
all these investments these vcs why they
because it's such a good way to make
money i mean people made money right
um
so and we look
it all is not lost in any way like
software is an incredible business
and software is an incredible enabler
and it's not it's only gonna go i mean
the pandemic unleashed
so much more opportunity for software i
mean obviously unleash so much pain and
is still so many people are enduring
from the pain so but like health care
gov tech
ed tech sas back office processes what's
going on in ai
i mean what's what we need in security
um what we need in like how plg has
changed what we need new crm
um
there's
it's incredible business so i'm glad
we're all in software what do you um
just to go back to an early point i was
i've been meaning to write the saster
blog post that i haven't written but
it it it's something like either 2021
was the year sas got easy or 2022 was a
year it wasn't easy anymore and what i
mean by that it's never easy right
there's so many there's 200 sponsors
here
but
in the old days which is like through
maybe 2018 in the back of imran you're
like to be a you to raise it a billion i
need to get to 100 million in revenue
and that creates a series of pressures
right because you talked about a series
b going back to a hundred million i mean
the amount of pressures so
let's just go back if if c is murky but
you think to raise a b so your third for
your third round of capital instead of
being at 400 500 million might be at 100
million
200 million so what sort of compression
amounts you raised like what is what is
that what what does that mean what do
you think you or since you're writing
the oracle what do you think a real
unicorn needs to be next year what do
you think a unicorn unicorn's going to
look like in 2020 i mean i still think i
know there's been a lot of like
there's too many unicorns i still have
always said this like i think building a
billion dollar company is incredibly
hard and incredibly special yes um it
didn't feel that way last year did it
it's still not i mean even the people
who are who who are running the
companies that are worth five or ten
would not tell you this it's easy right
it's crazy stressful you have to be
really lucky
a lot of things have to break your way
um and so i guess we're going back to
that place where there's going to be
less unicorns every year i do think next
year
like when we when we did the original
unicorn analysis we looked at kind of
vintage birth years and like what were
the best years to start or found
a unicorn and generally downturn
years are the best years
um
i think just you know you've got to be
more committed to your idea you know
it's going to be hard it's not a
get-rich-quick path
um and so i think that is kind of imbued
in the culture of the company and in the
hustle and the scrappiness of
everything you do so i do think next
year is going to be like from a venture
perspective for us yeah next year is
going to be an incredible vintage year
okay two things i want to hit yeah if
you guys want i think we have time for
three or four
questions before the next session we do
so think we got well i'll try to go five
more minutes and then get get you guys
some questions so feel to join but
what just a couple
what one's maybe slightly fun point and
then i want to talk about
the overall dry powder and overhang
but um
i like it you made like 20 slides and
we're about the first time
sometimes you never know where it goes
on the third day we can get through all
if you want
every vc today seems to be a discounted
cash flow interest rate expert i didn't
hear anyone last year talking about
interest rates and dcf do vcs even know
what they're talking about like i i i
kind of want to like pull my hair out
when i hear everyone all of a sudden
saying rounds don't make sense at 300
million because interest rates are at
4.6 percent yeah it's a really funny
like raise your hand if you understand
like how interest rates and discounted
cash flows impact
sas valuations irms sand down
okay so
um yeah it's funny i've actually over
the past year i've drafted this blog
post like five different times it's just
so hard to explain or like it's that
that's it's like i just the writing is
really boring so
basically i i was fortunate to start my
first job after college was i was a
morgan analyst at morgan stanley in
mergers and acquisitions and so you're
basically like a model jockey and you
learn how to use excel really well and
so basically you look at how much cash a
company is going to get make every year
and you take an interest rate and then
you kind of add stuff to it so if the
interest rate was five percent that you
might turn the discounted cash flow and
rate into 15 let's say right and then
you basically discount all the future
cash flows back to today
using the interest rate and so let's say
like
a thousand dollars worth of cash in the
future is worth a hundred dollars today
right
so what happened is
we used to and still a lot of public
company stocks in traditional markets
trade on cash multiples of cash flow
right and the best on the p l the best
best proxy for that is ebitda or ebit
okay
so
what happened kind of in a weird
subconscious way is because sas
companies have such good margins and
when they get profitable they do throw
off so much cash revenue kind of became
a proxy for ebit
and so we started looking at software
companies on a multiple of revenue
instead of a multiple of event and also
because sas the whole idea is like you
invest a lot in the front so you lose a
lot of money in the
if you make it all later it was too hard
to look at ebit because people had so
much um above the line that they weren't
they weren't generating good margins in
the first like first for five years so
we moved to multiple revenue as a proxy
basically for
like the future profitability of the
company and so when interest rates are
zero
like the discount rate is a lot lower
against your future cash flows than when
interest rates are where they are now
and where they're probably going and so
basically that does impact how like when
if if we're lucky enough to be working
on a company that becomes public
financial analysts and research analysts
are going to cover your stock in terms
of how what are the margins of your
business and how much cash you are
generating as a company because that is
actually what they really care about
yeah sorry that was really long but
that's what i did but did did all all of
our brilliant vc friends many of whom
today did they really think interest
rates would be zero forever when they
were doing these rounds i mean i
certainly never i certainly thought it
was a gift right
it's well it's kind of like
there might be some analogies to web 3
and nfts and crypto like it's specula i
mean it was speculation right for the
phase that it was really crazy it was
speculation people were making tons of
money yes and so when things are going
up that's a good time if you get in and
out at the right times you can make a
lot yeah my sign of speculation and
venture is when the pre-seat investors
won't sell at a billion
in it the market's changed at the peak
when in the old days when i started
investing in met you and i met some of
the original seed investors are like you
know what's great about being a seed or
pc investor you can get out sell yeah
like if you're excel or sequoia or
bessemer you can't sell in the series
you actually have to put more money in
you have to support the company at a
billion but these these valuations are
so crazy that little little uh you know
we actually can do a favor for the
founders because they want to sell you
know when you're sold
they raised opportunity funds and they
invested in a billion instead of selling
right well that's i mean that's why
sequoia went to this new fund structures
because they did the analysis and they
showed that by selling too early they
had left a lot on the table yes it's
going to be interesting to see how that
plays out they're very smart people so i
don't
i think they probably know what they're
doing all right last follow up on this
and then then we can definitely take
some questions for a few minutes um and
maybe we have i know we skipped a lot of
our slides but let me grab one as a prop
um this one okay yeah here's our revenue
we talked about revenue multiples i
probably should have thrown this side up
i grabbed this from bessemer who's
speaking next but
historical um current revenue not next
12 months current multiples and they're
back you don't have to
see all that but we're basically backs
depending how you look at it somewhere
between five or five years ago possible
reversal
do you think if we're in the middle like
it looked like we were going to do
better like multiples maybe weren't like
crazy coveted but yeah do you think
we'll be come back to the middle and
then venture is good or do you think
we're stuck back in the old days of that
i don't think we're going to go back i
mean i don't think we'll go back to like
whatever the beginning of the what the
far left is i think they will end a
little bit higher
yeah i think we went a little bit higher
yeah yeah but i think uh i'm a hope for
the best plan for the worst person
so um you know if we were working
together
like we could hope that that's just what
gonna happen but from a burn perspective
from a like a revenue from a plan
perspective i would plan for things not
to get better and make sure we can
survive and then if it wants to be
better than that we're in great shape
but it's some level so i think that's
what you've got to do as founders and as
planned for the current world yeah maybe
not maybe not too much worse but a
little bit but you but deep down as an
investor you think we'll see some
improvement in multiples over the coming
coming two years yes i think um
i think the software industry becomes
more sophisticated and more efficient
and the margins get better and the
companies get better run and cloud and
just like ai like it's just gonna put so
much more leverage on the system versus
like like i mean i know these are sas
multiples but like early sass was much
more expensive than sas today that's
true
all right anyone got some questions you
want to ask you can try or come up to
the mic if you've got one
don't be shy yeah
did you talk about what you want what
you came to hear about like if we didn't
talk about what you wanted to hear ask
us a question about what you want to
know
can you stand up a little bit it's hard
to hear you
yeah yeah yeah so maybe it's the
question that will investors actually
even care about profitability is that is
that the question oh yeah are you
talking about gross margins or net
margins
we're not going so far that early stage
investors care about profitability
we haven't gotten that far down yeah the
the multiple holes likely like once
you're past post series b yeah that's
when you're having the conversation
about
uh at your board with your board and
your investors about path to
profitability yeah i would say for the
like seed
and a
i think seed is about ship your product
and get to product market fit right and
start to get a sense of what the margins
of your business are who your target
like who's your icp
um
and do they love it right and then a is
really like you know can you get from
you know let's say
um you know from post seed let's say if
you're at a million and a half or two
million dollars when you raise your a
then you probably need to get to between
five and ten
in revenue during your a which is a
change from where we were
and um
and you know there's just it gets harder
every phase in different ways
um but i do think the fundamental gross
margins of your business people are
going to ask you earlier than they used
to
um and then you know how much you are
spending on
and there's so much we could talk about
like you know i think customer success
customer support like that there's still
so much opportunity uh in that i think
we're you know we have some good
software but there's still a lot of
opportunity to build a lot better
software for kind of like not just the
sell-in like i feel like we've had a
glut of sales tools in the past five
years to help you sell in and there's
going to be a lot of opportunity to help
you sell through
that everyone's going to focus on cause
it's just much more efficient to work on
land and expand and keeping your
customers than going to get new ones let
me maybe just spin a version of the
question on on margin for your top
investments the top ones that are also
very well funded yeah you have years of
runway yeah yeah
is there pressure to be more capital
efficient today to to to not spend it or
just
for that elite like growing like a weed
and well funded
do all this talk about profitability and
sales and marketing efficiency and has
anything really changed for those ones
like i think last year so like yesterday
um i don't know if any of you went to
the drata talk yesterday they're going
like crazy and the product is amazing
yeah any pressure there one of our
portfolio companies mutiny is here and
they have a booth and they're going like
crazy and they did a big round last year
um
and
i think
they're great they're in good shape
because they've raised a bunch they've
got years of runway the margins are good
customers love the product but yeah i
mean
you uh
we it's not as like right right now if
you a year ago you might have had a
conversation about should we grow 5x or
10x next year right and
that was really the like conversation
how how well wha why wouldn't you grow
10 like do it why wouldn't you right and
right now now the conversation would be
like well tell us the trade-offs of how
much do we lose if we grow 5x versus 8x
versus 10x and what are the margins and
who will you be signing and what's the
retention gonna look like and like are
you being what's your revenue quality
um i think that's a conversation i think
that's an important point on the topic
um that
yeah it's good like a year ago maybe no
one asked any questions they didn't care
what your gross margins were they didn't
care for 10 or 90 yeah just grow as much
now if you're a top tier they want you
to grow but they do want to know the
quality of revenue right but i think and
then just
where i think founders maybe get bad
advice on the internet
is that profitability is so in fashion
that somehow lower growth is better that
like now if you're at 2 million growing
40 but profitable that that's it doesn't
make it an attractive investment in this
climate does it
it's still hard because you have to have
both now that's actually more of a full
package totally it's so it's not like
don't worry about growth that is bad
advice growth is still very important
yeah there's there's extreme um so
anyhow that's just where i think
profitability people just want efficient
growth today there's tons of venture
capital isn't there but it's inefficient
growth is reserved for a for a tiny
elite yeah versus last year inefficient
growth was was available to many
yeah yeah that's another thing i guess
about the vc dynamic is like there is a
ton of venture money like there's a ton
of dry powder sitting on the sidelines
and it's almost like everyone went to a
really big party they drank way too much
and they have a hangover so they woke up
and they're like okay i should not drink
for at least a couple days like
basically that's 2022.
um and so they'll be back
it's just that but i think raising right
now if you can't avoid it because there
people may be also trying to kind of
cost average down their portfolios
like they paid too much and so let me
underpay now so i kind of wind up in the
middle and so like if you raise now if
you can avoid it you're going to be
getting a lot of bottom fishers
who can afford to sit and wait a little
bit and kind of reassess and see where
things settle out and then get back into
the market
good point uh we probably have time we
can do two more questions anybody else
have one that we want to ask i'll go
ahead with microphone
we'll try to do three if we can yeah so
i had a question around how to properly
do valuations for different verticals
and growth rates because i keep seeing
like that chart where everyone's just
like no now it's 5x this is it yeah but
we're growing really fast we're
enterprise we're big data we're all
these things that i think should add to
valuation
so how do we properly factor those to
make sure we're getting a fair price
well it's i mean you have to go to
market first of all but it's not 5x like
look if you are raising a series a and
you're doing 2 million in revenue you
are not worth generally you are not
going to be raising at 10 free
that's just that's not happening
um so there is a
there is a private premium for sure um
but i think you've got to go to market
and see what the market tells you that's
usually the best way to do it so almost
create a bidding war of sorts well
as investors we hope you do not but
here's the thing yes you gotta you gotta
like you gotta test them with when we
work with portfolio companies we'll
often tell them to kind of go
off-broadway first
like you know you practice your pitch
right with people who you don't think
are a good fit or unlikely to be the
people that you wanna work with because
the more times you give the pitch the
better you get at it but you also then
get feedback on what the questions are
and like what people are thinking in
terms of evaluation and then you kind of
do your broadway pitch
and my view for what it's worth i'd be
curious your thoughts is no matter what
happened last year i think all the time
i've been in sas including the founder
there's been an anchor valuation which
is 10x arr okay now it's gone up okay
and maybe that was 20x during the peak
but at the end of the day
if like you're a little if you're if
you're fundable but you're you're not
quite at the elite level you might fall
to 5x so that someone will take the risk
okay do you think that like a company
doing two million in revenue is going to
raise it 10 pre
no no but 20.
a 10x right i think that's that is if
you're not in the bubble if you're not
from yc if you don't have elite founders
i do think for my whole career that's
been an anchor point and you can anchor
up based on you know oh hey i was head
of marketing at gusto i was this i was
that you anchor up or you might anchor
down no one's heard of me i'm
self-taught um i have no pedigree fancy
pedigrees and you may get a discount but
i still think that in today's world i
think it's good to go back to that and
then just look if you hit that
in venture the math pencils out for
everybody and if you get more great and
you may come up short
and that's a lesson that you're not hot
like you're not checking these boxes as
i said and like in for the next 12
months any money is the new up basically
so i do think but i also think there's
an element of like how much do you want
to raise
and how much dilution are you willing to
take and how much does the investor want
to own like that's part of the calculus
as well yes where the owner like they
don't want you to sell 60 of your
company in a round right that's not
going to give you the right incentives
and they probably don't want to own 40
of your company so like that also helps
push the valuations up
my question is uh i love the comment
about the old slow increment
have you that you're about to your prep
product thesis and my question is like
how do you break down that the english
problem in your thesis your method and
if you do build together an idea problem
with second time founders
so the first one is how do you break
down like
that there is an old lazy incumbent
that's worth a lot of money i mean it's
a put it in your pitch right which is
like here's the product that people
currently use this is what they say
about it this is how much the company is
worth this is their margins especially
if it's a public company right it's got
an old ux it wasn't built for the cloud
it doesn't work well on mobile it's
super latent like that's and like
nps of the product or reviews on the g2
crowd or crap right so put that into
your story okay and the second time
founder if you build together like you
analyze the industry find a big problem
idea be a second time founder and
founder and do together with them
is what's the power of a second time
founder second time founder
if you yeah if you build it at company
together
great i mean yeah i think
it was funny we were talking about this
10-year unicorn analysis because when i
did the original unicorn analysis i had
this like crazy spreadsheet of like
where did the people work before how old
were they what was their job before
where did they go to school i even
looked at like birth order and star
signs like i was trying to figure out
like all kinds of crazy stuff
and um
one of the things that mo like the in
the original unicorn analysis that one
of the things that most of the founders
had in common is they were serial on
serial entrepreneurs but it could have
been like in high school i started a
lawn mowing service
and then i was like yeah babysitting on
the side while i was doing my first
company that failed and my second
company failed like the there was a lot
of failure and or like not big hit
outcomes in people's past
um but it showed that they just had the
drive and the hustle and the
entrepreneurial spirit i think that's
like i tell my kids that all the time
i'm like look like you know your
junior's not school you should start
something
it's really fun being my kid as you can
tell
i think it's for what i think that's
such a good point i think that look
there are there are vcs that love second
time founders yeah they're like even me
like my first startup i sold for 50
million after 12 months so all my
investors gave me another check right
that's how you do it right and the price
went up right
but not everyone likes that because
sometimes they spend all the money and
it's expensive there's pros and cons but
aliens points great most of you are a
second time entrepreneur in some sense
yes we all want to hear it's not just
the dumb founding story about pez we
want to hear how you've been working on
this problem for years and whether it
was truly you exited for 20 billion or
was just something you worked on as a
side hustle or or you worked on it
somewhere else
we want to hear that you have three to
four years of domain expertise
and yeah even if it's an entrepreneur or
something that's what's very compelling
to investors so
we're running out of time but one of my
biggest shadow portfolio misses is i
brought jack dorsey in
um for the series of square at my former
firm
and he had been fired from twitter
and the references like you know we did
very comprehensive memos i had a binder
a diligence binder and they were and the
references were like this guy is
untouchable why would you he is
unhirable why would you ever consider
working with him
um like you know he's a disaster he's a
nightmare and so i got shot down
um i think about that all the time that
i should have done a better i should
have figured out how to get us and then
i brought him back for the b and we
passed again so that was a big miss not
miss investing in square
um now the caveat to that is like
white guys get second chances all the
time
and so if you're hiring people and if
you're building your company just make
sure that you're giving everybody a
second chance just not certain not just
certain people
all right last question
awesome um so my business that's um you
know that
it's like a marketplace where i'm
connecting startups and small businesses
with flex sales talent so i've been
doing this for the last year we've done
around 600 grand uh from a gmv
perspective specifically when it comes
to marketplaces what are some of those
key metrics that you're looking at at
that precede or the seed stage
do you know i'm not in a marketplace um
for you anyway but well for marketplaces
um it's there's a ph balance right you
have to figure out like what's the rate
limit or what's harder is it supply side
or is it demand side so being able to
articulate like what's harder is it
harder to acquire on the sell side or on
the buy side and then figuring that out
like what starts the virtuous cycle how
much does it cost you and what have you
figured out to unlock the virtuous cycle
is really important because getting like
you know getting that going is the
hardest part of marketplaces
yeah thank you sure the only small
fallout and then will break is just if
you're talking to real sass people just
know know your know your investor like i
don't know what i mean i'm investing
companies with gmv and i don't know what
they are and i don't know how it works
and i i'll never know you have a broader
background you'll
air i'm an unders
so you can definitely give some some
random there's no tam definitely call me
no no that i know thy investor but all
right that's let's thank you so much
[Applause]